THIS VIDEO IS BROUGHT TO YOU BY SKILLSHARE
No. 6 is a manga that began in 2011 and concluded
in 2016, contained in a neat nine-volume collection.
A far cry from some of the sprawling, endless
manga that seem to dominate the sales charts.
Despite how condensed the story is, the series
has maintained a fanbase to this day, though.
Seemingly able to navigate topics that many
other franchises take much longer to fully
explore, themes and messages are clearly narrated
whereas many series find their messaging lost
in the curse of ‘taking too damn long to
make a point.’
This is a good example of less being more.
Despite the popularity of the manga, fans
generally didn’t have kind things to say
about the anime adaptation, though.
A common complaint being that the already
brisk pacing was condensed even further, and
many of the nuances were lost.
I guess you can’t win them all.
No. 6 tells the story of Shion and his survivalist
misadventure to overthrow a tyrannical Orwellian
Dystopian government with a refugee-criminal
who calls himself ‘Rat.’
Contrary to a number of other stories in the
era of early 2010s YA Dystopia (aside from
the protagonists being gay) No. 6 stands out
by focusing on the social indoctrination side
of things, rather than strictly being governed
under an iron fist.
The ‘soft touch’ approach to depicting
a society under the thumb of a ruling state
power is more complicated, but it pays off
when done well.
Truth be told, I feel like this is less of
a matter of taste and more of a matter of
American creators being uncomfortable with
the idea in general.
The more you depict this sweet spot of report-thy-neighbour
police state, the closer it looks in proximity
to contemporary American realities.
And we’re not ready to talk about that just
yet, apparently.
America can either confront the grim reality
of late-stage McCarthyism its in or raise
the bar a little higher and wait until the
government starts imposing curfew with walrus-tiger
hybrid clones which bear the faces of deceased
relatives.
And THEN we might start thinking about writing
an angry letter to your district overlord.
But as far as statements No.6 makes about
society, you really don’t need to read past
page 10… beyond that is useful, but essentially
boils down to elaborating on how this world
sucks, gay stuff, and trauma.
But before we get into all that, and a whole
lot more and how it relates to the LGB movement,
let’s hear a word from this videos sponsor.
THIS VIDEO IS BROUGHT TO YOU BY SKILLSHARE
I’ve actually used Skill Share for years,
and I’ve found it really helpful even with
making these videos.
One of the biggest things it's helped me with
is using Adobe After Effects, which can be
labyrinthian in its complexities.
And which I use to create the opening titles
for these videos.
In particular the Create Motion Graphics Templates
with After Effects course on Skillshare.
It’s shorter than a Pixar movie and helped
me learn to create some great dynamic opening
sequences.
With everyone changing careers or starting
their own businesses, a site like Skill Share
can be incredibly useful.
From learning a new skill to help increase
the quality of the work, like me, or learning
how to do your own accounting, or even learning
a whole new skillset without spending 4 more
years in school to do it.
My business partner, Nick, is taking a photography
course on Skillshare right now.
And right now Skillshare is offering one month
free to allof my viewers that use the link
in the description box, but only for the rest
of April.
But they’re running an even better offer!
If you’re ready to start learning today
with Skillshare, you can get 40% off your
first year using my link!
I’m going to leave both links down in the
description so you can choose the best one
for you.
But either way you get started, Skill Share
is a legitimately great resource.
I can’t recommend it enough.
So once you’ve finished this video, head
on down to the description and start learning
a new skill with Skillshare today.
The city called ‘No.6’ is presented as
an isolated utopia — the english translation
uses the phrase ‘holy city.’
The city of No.6, seems largely secular.
But the language of being a holy city does
establish the way the people revere the city,
and the extent to which people approach their
loyalty to it.
The city itself — including its government
and administration — cannot be at fault
for anything because the people owe the city
an inherent debt of gratitude.
(Granted, the minutiae of this is more apparent
past the opening 10 pages.)
Suffice to say, the people are generally reluctant
or afraid to direct any criticism at the city
itself, provided either reverence for the
city or fear of what the city can do to those
who do not demonstrate the utmost loyalty.
This regularly comes as a shock to Americans,
but most places in the world do not demand
a daily pledge of allegiance — especially
not from children in educational facilities.
Many nations do not even play the National
Anthem to open a school day.
Whenever this is depicted in the media OUTSIDE
of America, this is often a creator exemplifying,
in no uncertain terms, fascist undertones
(or at least toxic nationalism).
As the story goes on there are further examples
of the way the citizens of No.6 take the city’s
protections for granted, further reinforcing
the ideas established in the opening sequence.
However, where No.6 stands out from many of
its contemporaries is the dedication to showing
how the population itself has a passive role
in its own persecution.
Normally, in stories about an oppressive government,
a placated population is often taken for granted,
and there is not a whole lot of time given
to depicting how or why that population is
the way it is.
The important part, for this media, is that
things are the way they are because the heroes
need an oppressive force to fight against.
They cannot conduct these battles in the open
for fear of prying eyes.
OR, (and this is more common in American dystopian
fiction) you’ll get the flipside where the
government has a much more active role in
using martial law to oppress the population.
The populace is very aware that it is being
oppressed, and is usually depicted as waiting
for the first available excuse to spark the
revolution.
Americans love to think they’d rise up in
revolution against a tin pot dictator, but
y'all have been awful quiet about the Supreme
Court taking away your rights.
Anyway.
In the former instance, however, and I feel
this is much closer to reality, the population
does not know they are being oppressed, and
therefore have no context for freedom.
If an oppressed people believe they are already
free, they will not pursue freedom.
In fact, because a significant portion of
the population is comfortable in its own oppression,
it will actively resist any change in the
status quo.
People who can contextualise this idea of
freedom are those who can either read patterns
objectively, or those who exist outside of
social norms and constructs.
This is the first observation made in George
Orwell’s 1984.
The state is dependent on intellectuals to
research and apply totalitarian principals
to the population at large.
However, these same intellectuals pose a threat
to the stability of the regime, because the
mechanical workings of mass manipulation cannot
work on someone who can naturally analyse
and deconstruct social conventions.
Granted…
It's easy to say that.
The ‘intellectual class’ is actually much
more vulnerable to groupthink than self-proclaimed
free-thinkers would have you believe.
But they pose a risk to totalitarianism nevertheless
— not the GREATEST risk, but we’ll get
into that.
In No.6 — Shion represents this.
His acknowledged intelligence is a double-edged
sword for him.
Intellect with loyalty is a good thing.
Intellect with critical thinking is a liability.
It’s why the modern academic curriculum
— especially in America — promotes STEM
programs so strongly.
You generally do not NEED critical thought
to succeed in maths and sciences: challenging
social conventions is not a prerequisite for
designing a new app.
Meanwhile the humanities are dipping out of
popularity and there is almost no worker demand
for studies deriving from critical thought.
Maths and sciences produce products that are
valuable to the state or the economy.
They are intellect that the State can control
and exploit.
Ethics and media literacy generally exist
to insist that the state should not control
intellect.
This is counter-productive to the agenda of
an overarching institutional body.
It’s made clear to Shion that if the state
cannot facilitate complete control of his
intellect, then he is a threat.
While this discussion is present in Orwell,
it’s actually a more prominent theme in
the writings of Vonnegut.
But that’s enough name-dropping.
For now.
The very opening of No.6 features a display
of indoctrinating children into this groupthink
of State-Worship.
And this was compounded with the first plot
arc, of how Shion lost his lofty status in
society — by showing compassion to an escaped
prisoner (Rat) instead of reporting him.
In an instant, he demonstrates that his compassion
for another human being was stronger than
his loyalty to the state.
Again, something we’ll come back to later
on.
Already the parallels to 1984 are highlighted
by government structure where law enforcement
is dependent-in-part upon the people to police
eachother.
Keep in mind there is a difference between
policing yourself and policing others.
Social indoctrination is when the population
is convinced that these things are one in
the same.
First, the people are expected to act as eyes
and ears for law enforcement — observing
and reporting other citizens’ actions.
And later it is suggested that law enforcement
may monitor individual conversations for indications
of what is tantamount to thought-crime.
Of course, a system of citizen-policing really
only works in instances of the people believing
that they owe their allegiance or loyalty
to the state.
And then trusting the state enough to honestly
believe that monitoring the population at
large is for the greater good.
The reason why this…
OUGHT to be so terrifying to us is because
this power structure is the exact antithesis
of democracy: where the state owes its loyalty
and service to the people.
Despite the fact that…
there are many democratic nations which seem
to flirt with the former.
All the time.
And maybe it’s just the fact that I read
this at a very specific time that while I
drew these parallels between No.6 and our
society — namely within, but not limited
to, American politics — a lot of this feels
hauntingly familiar.
Yes, the American government specifically
has been encouraging citizens to report suspected
terrorists and undocumented immigrants to
the police for… most…
most of my life.
But I wouldn’t have expected to see these
kinds of State-Loyalist values within the
Queer community.
While it was something that I found only annoying,
I’m now starting to become actively concerned
with the degree that being a queer narc is
coming into vogue.
Sorry…
these people don’t really like being called
queer.
I’m perfectly fine with queer people who
want to fit into the heteronormative framework
of Euro-American hegemony.
Like all rights movements, queer rights is
about affording people in this group the same
choices and opportunities that exist for those
of privilege.
Choosing to exist in this framework is, and
ought to be, as valid as choosing NOT to exist
in this framework.
The joint effort for rights affords people
the ability to conform.
In return, the conformers are expected to
uphold the rights of those that choose not
to conform, though want to be left unbothered
by the system.
And so, I have issues which arise with the
way certain factions feel that, while it’s
okay to be gay— NOBODY should be ‘queer.’
And that they themselves have absolutely nothing
but contempt for being included in any kind
of ‘queerness.’
Nevermind that the academic school of thought
is called queer theory — and is held alongside
other schools of literary and cultural criticism.
And has a particular role for analysing the
social interplay between those within and
those without the hetero-cis-normative hegemony.
However as I would like to be referred to
with respect by these people, I will respect
their preferences for how they describe themselves,
and instead will refer to the **LGB alliance’s**
generally-agreed-upon self-identification.
Which is the same thing as we have, but with…
less.
On one hand it’s a little bit uncouth to
participate in call-out culture and possibly
confront anyone watching this who may identify
with this LGB Alliance… but on the other
hand I’ve spent the last several years being
very clear about my political and social support
for trans, nonbinary, and any other letter-identities
that go past the first three in the acronym.
Even ace people who really ought to be the
Switzerland of this discussion, though you
can’t get far without someone saying that
‘asexualism is invalidating homosexualty’
or whatever.
In fact I’ve been vocal about dismissing
the use of acronyms altogether.
In part because the modular nature of the
jumble of letters can give some people licence
to actively dismiss and ignore members of
our community who were foundational in our
fight for rights.
I can’t help but feel like this… dissonant
community would prefer not to find an overarching
name because then they would lose a method
of excluding people and that seems to be their
unifying value.
Kreia: “To be united by hatred is a fragile
alliance at best.”
And also because the 100% plan is to cut the
B out whenever they… win?
What even is the win condition for the LGB
alliance, as an activism group?
Facilitating ongoing discrimination against
a community of people whose identities revolve
around alternative and non-cis gender identities?
Because their help was certainly NOT needed
to assure ongoing discrimination against trans
people in this society.
What are they actually fighting for…?
From what I can gather, hating trans people
is actually a secondary objective of theirs..
Sure, yeah, they hate trans people but what
are they trying to accomplish with that hate?
When the hegemony discriminates against something
outside of itself, the objective is to reinforce
an ongoing structure of social supremacy or
to limit the number of individuals who can
benefit from social privileges.
Being able to hate an entire other social
group, identity, or ethnicity in itself is
a social luxury.
This is why non-queer TERF philosophy reads
hollow because it’s trying so desperately
to convince you that there is an objective
or an end-goal.
In practice, though, the end goal seems to
be a demonstration of what social authority
they already have, by flexing it over a very
small, very vulnerable target demographic.
They hide hate by pretending to have a cause:
“We don’t HATE these people because we
WANT to.
We care about THIS issue, and therefore we
HAVE to hate these people.”
The care is propagated to come first — but
they just want an excuse to hate something.
Whereas, if hate was the primary objective
of the LGB Alliance, they would have a mission
statement that would support their hatred.
Instead, their hatred supports their actual
ideology:
“The trans people are being targeted by
our new straight friends — in order to maintain
what privileges we have, we need to demonstrate
that we don’t like them either.”
Hatred is a consequence of their objective.
Which results in many queer people feeling
that they either have to dictate how trans
people should live their lives (spoiler, it’s
either detransitioning or gender-conformity)
or are perfectly comfortable broadcasting
disgust towards trans people and/or nonbinary
gender expressions.
While it may be easy to say that this is a
very queer-boomer mindset, I am seeing an
unfortunate rash of queer whipper-snappers
who have nothing but contempt for Jeffery
Marsh and other vocal genderqueer advocates.
They also seem to be in the same camp as people
who want to condemn kink and other visible
indicators of a healthy, consensual sex life.
Because if the hetero-hegemony wants to keep
any trace of non-conformist sex out of everyday
life, then people who want heterosexual privileges
ALSO want that, too.
There’s a lot being done to demonstrate
the “I’m not with they/them” mentality.
A hallmark of these fictional dystopian societies
is that you demonstrate your loyalty by condemning
others.
Which, as it so happens, is also how police
regimes like to function in real life.
There’s no better way to let everyone know
that you’re not a communist than if you
accuse all of your friends of secretly being
communists.
That being said, I’m not comparing the LGB
Alliance to this kind of painfully Orwellian
YA dystopian genre.
As much as I feel like it’s a Machiavelli-esque
manual for identifying totalitarian control,
there are many who use 1984 to dog-whistle
the horrors of not being able to call people
slurs and get away with it anymore.
It’s referencing a very specific political
process that surely does not begin with the
public’s criticisms of stand-up comedians.
At the same time that comedians justify their
loose lips as being the first and last lines
of defence against totalitarianism, they go
around using their comedy to ridicule people
who are already targets of political talking
points.
Though I feel as if tentative rights and privileges
are being filtered to some of us in the queer
community, I’m beginning to see an unsettling
pattern from those of us who feel inclined
to… police the whole group.
My large concern comes from the… giddy,
enthusiastic willingness to partake in this
budding phase of state observationalism.
One side of the dualistic truth of human nature
really shines through when you have a group
of people whose identities were illegal in
some capacity and they win a campaign to earn
a second class citizen status and immediately
turn around and say: “OKAY!
Who do we get to torment now that we’re
at the grown-up table?”
The other side, the seemingly larger side,
believes you can make convincing arguments
to talk people out of an irrational power
trip.
Nothing is so tempting for people who have
lived under a thumb to get the chance to flex
their own.
What better way is there to understand the
psychological inner workings of why someone
would participate in discriminatory groupthink
against you, than to participate in discriminatory
groupthink which targets someone else?
So enough beating around the bush — what
is going on here?
There is a large contingent of LGBT, etc people
who participate in the ongoing persecution
of various queer identities.
The fact that it’s happening so broadly
is more concerning than the fact that a bunch
of TERFs and has-been theatre queens are organising
online.
The purpose to this vocal protest of other
queer people is less about making any difference
or making any social change.
These people have what they want, they may
not want more, maybe they do — but their
objective is to protect what they have already
gotten.
And in a misguided way, they feel that uniting
with the intolerant hegemony in hatred will
allow them to escape further discrimination.
As I don't join the hate myself, I can’t
really speak to the mechanics of it.
Is it more appropriate to say that these cis
Gs, Ls, and Bs see a friend in the enemy of
an enemy?
Or is it more about what they say about escaping
from bears?
That you don’t have to outrun the bear,
you just have to outrun your friends.
Because there’s a difference between running
away, and tripping your trans friend when
she starts to get into the clear.
Now really, there are enough of us running
from this bear that we can probably turn around
and scream really loud until the bear decides
we’re more trouble than it’s worth.
God forbid anyone takes advice from a metaphor
though.
The vocalised mindset from anti-trans queer
folk is that things were going GREAT for the
L’s and G’s and B’s — that they had
everything they wanted.
Or at least there was forward momentum towards
progress (for them, of course) — it was
a delicate balance of accruing political and
social currency, and then trading it in for
strategically-decided rights and privileges.
The straights had gone to sleep about GAY
and LESBIAN issues… but they think that
trans people going for their rights is like
poking a sleeping tiger.
The straight hegemony being both tigers and
bears in these scenarios because EVERYBODY’S
a fucking furry these days.
The thing that I think is so spineless about
LGB ideology is that it’s not made out of
any stance on belief, but a desperate attempt
to save face and GROVEL.
“We’re actually DIFFERENT from them, so
we don’t care what happens to them, just
please please don’t take away the sorry
excuse for straight privilege that we’ve
already gotten.”
The only instance of grovelling that I can
ever respect is when it involves a safe word.
This doesn’t really manifest in contacting
a secret police to have people taken away
for being trans
(yet)
but it does betray a mentality that people
in the overarching queer community are more
than willing to throw each other under the
bus for the purpose of maintaining what privilege
has already been gotten.
Of course, the real problem is the fact that
there is a hungry lion, or tiger, or bear
— your friends are not the enemy.
Instead of doing something about the beast,
we’d rather just feed our friends to it.
How does the thought cross your mind that
the wild animal will never eat you?
What?
As long as you keep feeding your friends to
it?
Keep it full so it thinks you're an ally?
What happens when you have no more friends
to feed to it?
Can you really say it’s a good idea to stake
your public acceptance on your ability to
offer up victims to a bully?
This is less about… reasoning with this
mindset because I don’t actually think that
reasoning with them accomplishes anything.
“Oh SNAP.
John Stewart OWNED a conservative on gun regulation
laws!”
Sure, Him, yes, but also hundreds of other
pundits, commenters, politicians, celebrities,
and social theorists.
If ‘owning’ anybody in an argument was
really going to result in a tangible effect
on a social landscape, it would have happened
by now.
Gone are the days of Fred Rogers appealing
to congress for ongoing government funding
for PBS, holding congresspeople enwrapped
with a detailed argument of why public television
is so significant.
Arguably, the last time anybody in a position
of power actually *listened* to a testimonial
was Frank Zappa’s testimonial about the
slippery slope of censoring song lyrics in
the 1980s.
Nobody LISTENS to arguments anymore, and that
extends now to people on social media.
I’m afraid that very few people have the
views they do because they’ve actually thought
about them, weighed the arguments internally,
and decided upon a set of values.
If I’m being cynical, many people seem to
propagate their views because they were either
conditioned into them by family values, or
because they want to emulate a public figure
that they like.
And that can include people who lean into
the collection of values which we label with
the abstract concept of ‘the left.’
That said, people who have reasoned through
their values tend to lean towards the left
anyway.
Who would have thought that members of a species
that owes its survival and global dominance
to cooperation and cohabitation would rationalise
their way into political compassion?
It’s almost like primates thrive because
of social cohesion and liberal omnisexualuty.
The point of arguing a side of the false dichotomy
that is political left versus political right
is less to actually convince people of values
one way or the other.
The reason people commit to these bombastic
displays of tweet threads or tic-toc call-out
videos is to signal what side of the debate
you are on.
And even if arguments are made to be directed
at the other side, the bulk of what they accomplish
is just reinforcing the values of people who
already agree with them.
Paraphrasing Noam Chomsky, he once said that
anyone who asks you to explain something quickly
is asking you to explain something they already
agree with.
Any number of minute long tic-toc videos is
not going to convince someone to abandon a
lifetime of social and intellectual conditioning.
In the same way, a tic-toc trying to explain
why the Hunger Games is actually about a socialist
dictatorship is just going to piss me off.
We may say: “Well that’s because the concept
is completely irrational and indicative of
poor media literacy skills.”
Which may be true.
But it’s not ABOUT “rational.”
In this instance, the Hunger Games is about
a collectivist society that chooses compassion
and freedom instead of tyranny.
Of course anyone who feels like their social
values are not being represented are going
to identify with this story.
They will start with the conclusion, and selectively
draw parallels where it suits their argument,
and ignore anything that does not support
their views.
Honestly, the capitol is indicative of many
things the right accuses the left of propagating.
Queer-coded, sensitive, sexual predators who
force others to be furries to befit fetishization.
Granted, that is a kind of satire all in itself
— escalating a perceived world state to
the point of parody.
Confronting the audience to look at how absurd
what you are saying is — and also look at
how that’s absolutely NOT happening.
Granted in this genre of Dystopia, the objective
is to caution the audience about what COULD
be, provided we do not course-correct our
society.
It’s also just not how you’re supposed
to read the Hunger Games.
It’s about rich people going out of control
— which is a hallmark of…
Reganistic de-regulated corporatism.
You gotta think: which political institution
is actively advocating for people to get THIS
kind of rich?
Is it the AOCs of the world, who wanna tax
rich people?
No.
No It is not.
Still though, we are allowed to be upset at
the perhaps intentional conflation of oppressive
opulence with queer aesthetics.
The wealthy haven’t had aesthetics that
strong since France circa 1700.
Which was likely where the aesthetic direction
was drawn from.
But the antagonistic elements of the Hunger
Games and No.6 are not the specific power
figures enforcing these values — the revolting
part of these stories (regardless of how they
are interpreted) is a comfortable class of
people who exist in tandem with an underclass
who, in spite of their suffering, are entirely
ignored.
The weird thing that you can only RARELY get
out of fiction (insofar as this parallel applies
to *queerdom*) is that after the whole bunch
of us spent centuries under the boot, we have
an internal social structure that is DESPERATELY
trying to participate in this persecution
dynamic now.
While at the SAME TIME this self-perceived
upper-crust of LGBs insist upon their ongoing
persecution under the hetero-hegemony.
Thing is, it would be incredibly easy for
me to make an argument that would ‘own’
the LGB Alliance.
I wouldn’t be the only one, for sure.
And it is tempting, because who doesn’t
love to win an argument?
The argument against them is so easy because
these beliefs are irrational, but the thing
is… they want you to point out how irrational
it is.
Because THEN they can take that debate, and
run to the straight people they’re begging
for validity from and say:
“Look at how MEAN those trans supporters
are!
Cancel culture pipeline!”
This discrimination of trans people within
the gay and lesbian communities is not rational:
bigotry in general rarely is.
Failing any reasoning, the self needs to preserve
its expected lifestyle and level of comfort.
They resort to emotional argumentation because
that’s more effective to accrue social currency
as a victim.
The process of discriminating against others
in the hopes of going unnoticed by persecution
is an act of self-diminishment.
It’s acknowledging that persecution exists,
but that the better thing to do is to go unnoticed,
let it pass by, and target others.
Nobody who does that is standing for anything.
At best it’s negligent and ignorant; at
worst it’s malicious and cowardly.
Turning away from the suffering of others
with the express intent of preserving your
own privilege is the exact foundation of literally
every dystopian future that fiction provides.
Even ‘robots taking over the world’ futures
normally begin with humanity taking to violence
against artificial intelligence.
The society that exists in No.6 is one which
depends on affording a certain amount of privileges
to a select amount of people.
In a real-world application, the state only
needs to afford privileges to a bare minimum
of citizens to control the narrative.
If *enough* people buy into the State’s
mandate, the people themselves will silence
all those who disagree.
Because who doesn’t like a little privilege?
And then the narrative switches from *the
people* justifying their own rights, to the
narrative that privileges were bestowed upon
them by a benevolent authority.
Not enough people participating in privilege
will simply result in the authority losing
control in a game of numbers.
Too many people participating in privilege
will decrease the political control that authority
can have — which is good for the comfortable
chaos of a people’s democracy.
Bad for an oligarchy who wants to pilot a
nation for the benefit of a select few in
the higher echelons of society.
And what it really comes down to is a group
of people who desperately think they can make
the cut when it comes to dolling out privilege.
Even more so for people who already got a
taste.
But really…
Does the thought process really work like
that?
Do we really think that upon the vanquishing
of trans rights, the hetero-hegemony will
join hands with their gay, lesbian, and bisexual
brethren and let them raise children together
in neatly divided suburbs?
I could talk about why queers policing other
queers is clownish and cowardly on the merits
of a once-persecuted class carrying out an
agenda of persecution in the hopes that they
will be spared the rod.
But if you already feel that way, I can’t
foresee any moral argument swaying your opinion.
There is a face to step on if there are people
beneath you.
I guess stepping on people is more important
than not getting stepped on, yourself.
But if the objective IS making the world a
better place — what kind of world are these
values and sentiments contributing to.
The problem with a massive amount of ‘overthrow
the government’ literature is that there
is extreme, and perhaps deliberate vaguary
when it comes to what this governmental platform
is.
And the problem with US, as an audience, is
that we are obsessed with the misguided notion
that our politics exist as a binary between
two political parties on a spectrum.
We’re too busy trying to search for clues
about whether Panem is a political left or
political right so that we can act as party-affiliated
watchdogs to accuse other political affiliations
of resembling a fictional character…
or Hitler.
Which, unfortunately, we have to leave Godwin’s
law behind in the bin because.
American Nazis.
Meanwhile, we ignore the fact that these warning
signs are RIGHT IN FRONT OF US, and waste
our time trying to JUSTIFY our political ideology
by claiming that the opposition resembles
comic book villains.
Because we are that married to the use of
fiction to justify real-world feelings.
Regardless of the fact that in our attempt
to prevent ‘the other guys’ from doing
totalitarianism, we’re ignoring the pattern
that this just seems to be what any unregulated
government will do.
Especially when we’re too busy with macro-political
party lines to pay attention to the minutiae
of governance.
The government is like a dead frog.
Unless we, the people, poke it to make it
do things, it will just lay there, bloating,
and doing everything it can to justify its
own existence.
Though unlike the frog, a runaway government
is alive enough to fight for its survival.
The purpose of democracy is to shift political
decision making from the elite, to be in the
hands of the people.
Ideally, we shouldn’t ‘depend’ on the
government to take any action about anything
because the power to act lies with the people.
Granted that’s… a hell of a rose-tinted
idea of democracy.
But it’s concerning to me that I see more
and more people in America expecting executive
action, when American Democracy is also alleged
to be one of the greatest examples of democracy
in the world.
And as a person who does not live in America,
I’m seeing a lot of people expecting their
government to work the same way, where the
head of the federal government is expected
to be able to ‘do things’ on a whim.
In reality, the political ideologies of these
fictional dystopian governments is irrelevant.
Boiling it down to ‘this happens in extreme
CAPITALIST governments’ or ‘that happens
in extreme COMMUNIST governments’ is missing
the point.
The point is that the people of this nation
have allowed their government to consolidate
power to the point where it is almost entirely
removed from the people.
For those who can keep their head down and
toe the line, this is fine.
But there’s never going to be a situation
where everyone in a culture can exist as the
archetype of the government’s model citizen.
Luckily, the state has a solution for dissidents.
Everyone who can’t toe the line also has
a role to serve to the State: as an example
of what happens to those who do not conform.
It saddens me to say that in the queer community,
after winning a cultural war justifying that
queer love is not a choice, some of us are
trying to label others’ identities as choices.
I do want to be clear that I’m using an
Orwellian comparison a little flippantly.
These days you get any assortment of people
who, at the first sign of any kind of social
decency, will resort to a 1984 comparison.
It also doesn’t help that Orwell rooted
his story in a totalitarian Communist regime.
Kind of.
The key factor about 1984 is that the people
are kept ignorant of how their government
actually worked.
Details about distant or recent history are
also kept obscure — and these obfuscating
factors increased with each generation.
Huh…
Texas and Florida are doing away with a lot
of school history books.
1984 was scary because, so I am told, there
is nothing in that novel that was strictly
fictitious.
But then again, the combination of all these
real-world political suppression tactics benefits
a very specific kind of sensibility.
If it’s not indicative of this kind of totalitarian
dystopia, then it should signal to you that
if (or when) this DOES happen, a line is drawn
between those who will beg to be welcomed
into it, and those who cannot or will not
conform.
The ease with which many gay men and women
come to discriminate against so many others
should be a red flag because it clearly outlines
a willingness to participate in this KIND
of totalitarian regime.
As with the Twinks for Trump kind of movements,
there’s a mindset that if we adapt the mentality
of the bigoted oppressors that the oppressors
will recognize us as ‘worthy.’
You, of the LGB Alliance, may throw out some
defences saying
‘I don’t want trans people to be eradicated’
‘something something —
‘difference of opinions’
— something —
‘i’m just uncomfortable’ —
Something.’
However, the language you are projecting to
the world is literally “they/them are not
with us.”
And by perpetuating that you deserve your
own rights and privileges because of your
separation from trans people and others, you
are ALSO saying:
“I’m cool if you do whatever you want
with them.”
You are acknowledging that hate and bigotry
exist within the system but doing nothing
to challenge it.
And rather than change the system, you are
not only siding with it, but being willing
to sacrifice your freedoms to do it.
Yes, freedom.
You are pressuring a government to have the
power to decide who is or is not a person.
Almost… immediately after the government
decided that you were a person, so back up
a little bit.
How can a government which decides who is
or is not a person possibly have any kind
of role in freedom?
The stupid idea isn’t this roundabout argument
that trans people fighting for trans rights
will somehow put a crosshair on cis gay men
and women.
Because, quite frankly, that’s probably
true.
And we need to confront that, and acknowledge
that putting ourselves at risk to close ranks
and advocate for what the whole of us needs
— is more important than hiding in a fantasy
world where everything is coming up roses
for the gays.
Because we do need to confront this uncomfortable
truth that standing together as a community
comes with a possible threat.
But that threat isn’t coming from people
who love you, it's coming from people who
tolerate you.
They wish you and your gay ass weren’t around,
weren’t on their favourite TV shows, but
they’ll TOLERATE it.
And this community, every letter in the goddamn
alphabet, has been through too much to simply
be tolerated.
Let’s face it — if some people being who
they truly are without hurting anyone is all
that it takes for the freedom-brokers of the
world to revoke your legal status as a person
— chances are that your rights aren’t
as secure as you think.
And that shouldn’t make you feel defeated
— that should inspire you to work to finish
the job.
And certainly… examine the philosophical
conflict of interest in fighting for your
own rights by preventing others from getting
theirs.
We either all deserve rights, or we open the
door to a debate on who is or isn’t a person.
If more people seeking rights is going to
jeopardise your own rights — why does that
direct your anger at the people seeking rights,
and not at the people who give the rights
out like gold stars for good behaviour?
He who giveth can taketh away.
And this fantasy world of everything being
awesome for the gays is at odds with the awareness
that rights could and CAN vanish.
It’s *this* fear that’s fuelling the hatred:
hatred is learned behaviour.
And it’s the desperate need to cling to
this rose-tinted world of mimosas and post
VH1 drag-race — this world where the gays
have won everything they could ever want — that
is generating this fear of losing it all.
We’re so desperate to not return to our
darkest days that some of us are trying to
keep others in them.
We take the side of the hatemongers who, within
even my living memory, were responsible for
our bleakest moments.
It’s easy to channel fear into hate.
If you fear losing what you have, you will
hate those who (you perceive) may take it
from you.
Though the characters in works like 1984 are
tragic, a solution to totalitarian control
is offered.
Big brother’s control is predicated on the
ability to restrict love and sex, and redirect
it into feverish devotion for the party.
In light of everyone obsessing over everything
else in 1984, I am most concerned that this
detail in particular is going unspoken.
However, while Orwell’s focus was on sex
and romance, and while his protagonists themselves
are flawed and single-minded, I feel there
is a rather glaring extension to the kind
of love that is needed to push back against
control and regime.
Why just romantic love?
Why not the love for a community?
A culture?
A nation?
The love of a stranger who is doing what they
love — what they were never told to do,
but they do anyway.
A love for recognizing someone living their
best life, for knowing that even if you are
in hard times, you can rest assured that your
best life is still out there.
Love in the literal sense of appreciating
another human being because you recognize
that the humanity in them is the very same
as the humanity in you.
Love in the abstract sense of appreciating
a world for which any explanation for our
existence is a spectacle.
And that there is no way to appreciate the
people in this world — for all the ways
that they are the same through hate and fear.
Love is a shift in your energy and loyalty
to the subject of your attention.
The state cannot control what you love, because
*you* have no control over what you love either.
So the hallmark of control is being told what
to fear — and what to hate.
Who is your enemy.
Not who is your friend.
But whose the real enemy?
The person threatening to take your rights
away?
Or the person simply asking to be treated
with respect.
I know who my enemy is.
Do you?